feat: add `blas/ext/sorthp` (#8098)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/ext/sorthp/README.md

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# sorthp

> Sort an input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] along one or more [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] dimensions using heapsort.

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var sorthp = require( '@stdlib/blas/ext/sorthp' );
```

#### sorthp( x\[, sortOrder]\[, options] )

Sorts an input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] along one or more [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] dimensions using heapsort.

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ -1.0, 2.0, -3.0 ] );

var y = sorthp( x );
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ -3.0, -1.0, 2.0 ]

var bool = ( x === y );
// returns true
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **x**: input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. Must have a numeric or "generic" [data type][@stdlib/ndarray/dtypes].

> -   **sortOrder**: sort order (_optional_). May be either a scalar value or an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] having a real or "generic" [data type][@stdlib/ndarray/dtypes]. If provided an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], the value must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the complement of the shape defined by `options.dims`. For example, given the input shape `[2, 3, 4]` and `options.dims=[0]`, an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] sort order must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the shape `[3, 4]`. Similarly, when performing the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] sort order must be a zero-dimensional [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. By default, the sort order is `1` (i.e., increasing order).

Reviewer: I am wondering whether we should also support the string literals `'ascending'` and `'descending'` and then map those literals to `1` and `-1` internally before calling into lower level functions. The rationale is that, from a code readability standpoint, a number literal does not readily convey its meaning. Compare

```javascript
sorthp( x, -1 );
```

versus

```javascript
sorthp( x, 'descending' );
```

The latter is more literate.

This comment is only directed at the top-level end-user APIs. I am **not** suggesting we update any lower-level packages.

Reviewer: I am also okay supporting `'desc'` and `'asc'`, as well. Meaning, we could support four literal string values (but not ndarrays!): `descending`, `ascending`, `desc`, and `asc`.

Reviewer: Although, the abbreviated `desc` and `asc` are a bit less obvious.

Reviewer: @Planeshifter Do you have opinions here?

Author: @kgryte makes sense

-   **options**: function options (_optional_).

The function accepts the following options:

-   **dims**: list of dimensions over which to perform operation. If not provided, the function performs the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].

By default, the function sorts elements in increasing order. To sort in a different order, provide a `sortOrder` argument.

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ -1.0, 2.0, -3.0 ] );

var y = sorthp( x, -1.0 );
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ 2.0, -1.0, -3.0 ]
```

> In addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via one of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to numeric values, one can specify the sort order via one of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.
```

-   **sortOrder**: sort order (_optional_). May be either a scalar value, string, or an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] having a real or "generic" [data type][@stdlib/ndarray/dtypes]. If provided an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], the value must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the complement of the shape defined by `options.dims`. For example, given the input shape `[2, 3, 4]` and `options.dims=[0]`, an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] sort order must have a shape which is [broadcast-compatible][@stdlib/ndarray/base/broadcast-shapes] with the shape `[3, 4]`. Similarly, when performing the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor], an [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] sort order must be a zero-dimensional [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. By default, the sort order is `1` (i.e., increasing order).
-   **options**: function options (_optional_).

The function accepts the following options:

-   **dims**: list of dimensions over which to perform operation. If not provided, the function performs the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor].

> By default, the function uses an increasing sort order. To sort in a different order, provide a `sortOrder` argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the function sorts elements in increasing order. To sort in a different order, provide a `sortOrder` argument.
```

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ -1.0, 2.0, -3.0 ] );

var y = sorthp( x, -1.0 );
// returns <ndarray>

var arr = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ 2.0, -1.0, -3.0 ]
```

> Alternatively, you can also provide a string literal to specify the sort order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, in addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.
```

> In addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via one of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.
```

> Alternatively, in addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to numeric values, you can specify the sort order via of the following string literals: `'ascending'`, `'asc'`, `'descending'`, or `'desc'`. The first two literals indicate to sort in ascending (i.e., increasing) order. The last two literals indicate to sort in descending (i.e., decreasing) order.
```

// returns <ndarray>

arr = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ 2.0, -1.0, -3.0 ]
```

By default, the function performs the operation over all elements in a provided input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor]. To perform the operation over specific dimensions, provide a `dims` option.

```javascript
var ndarray2array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/to-array' );
var array = require( '@stdlib/ndarray/array' );

var x = array( [ -1.0, 2.0, -3.0, 4.0 ], {
    'shape': [ 2, 2 ],
    'order': 'row-major'
});

var v = ndarray2array( x );
// returns [ [ -1.0, 2.0 ], [ -3.0, 4.0 ] ]

var y = sorthp( x, {
    'dims': [ 0 ]
});
// returns <ndarray>

v = ndarray2array( y );
// returns [ [ -3.0, 2.0 ], [ -1.0, 4.0 ] ]
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   The input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted **in-place** (i.e., the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is **mutated**).
-   If `sortOrder < 0.0`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **decreasing** order. If `sortOrder > 0.0`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **increasing** order. If `sortOrder == 0.0`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is left unchanged.

> -   If `sortOrder === asc` or `sortOrder === ascending`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **increasing** order. If `sortOrder === desc` or `sortOrder === descending`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **decreasing** order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   If `sortOrder < 0.0` or either `'desc'` or `'descending'`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **decreasing** order. If `sortOrder > 0.0` or either `'asc'` or `'ascending'`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is sorted in **increasing** order. If `sortOrder == 0.0`, the input [ndarray][@stdlib/ndarray/ctor] is left unchanged.
```
